Review of main readme and model run (#26)
nestauk/cci_cameroon: README.md

# cci_cameroon
<!-- #region -->

## Setup
# Collective Crisis Intelligence Project for The Cameroon Red Cross

- Meet the data science cookiecutter [requirements](http://nestauk.github.io/ds-cookiecutter/quickstart), in brief:
  - Install: `git-crypt` and `conda`
  - Have a Nesta AWS account configured with `awscli`
- Run `make install` to configure the development environment:
  - Setup the conda environment
  - Configure pre-commit

>   - Configure metaflow to use AWS

Reviewer: Can all of this definitely be discarded? How will a user know how to set up the project?

> This repository contains the code and documentation for a project uses Collective Crisis Intellegence (CCI) with the aim to help the Cameroon Red Cross to track and respond to misinformation in realtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains the code and documentation for a project that uses Collective Crisis Intellegence (CCI) with the aim to help the Cameroon Red Cross to track and respond to misinformation in real time.
```

Reviewer 2: Hi @georgerichardson I think the problem was because the library `textwrap` needed to be updated to `textwrap3`. Can you try running make install again after pulling the changes? Thanks.

> This repository contains the code and documentation for a project uses Collective Crisis Intellegence (CCI) with the aim to help the Cameroon Red Cross to track and respond to misinformation in realtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains the code and documentation for a project that uses Collective Crisis Intellegence (CCI) with the aim of helping the Cameroon Red Cross to track and respond to misinformation in realtime.
```

Prob also worth saying what project this is a part of.

The CRC collects community feedback, including rumours and beliefs about COVID-19, through a network of volunteers. After community feedback is collected, the CRC submits the full dataset to a data analyst based at the regional IFRC cluster team who cleans the data and assigns labels to different categories of rumours, beliefs and observations.

> The Collective Crisis Intelligence project for the Cameroon Red Cross aims at developing a prototype of an Artificial Intelligence system that can be used to classify comments in the context of covid-19. The aim of the tool is to both help volunteers in the field provide appropriate and timely responses to community members' comments and CRC staff to handle large groups of unknown rumours. Figure 1 summarises how the tool could be used.

Reviewer: I would say here first what the tool aims to do in general terms and then mention covid specifically after.

Also, here covid is used, but above it's COVID.

![How the tool is used](outputs/figures/readme/tool_works.png)
Figure 1: How the tool is used

> The prototype tool handles new rumours in two steps. First it tries to classify them to one of the existing eight codes using a predictive model. If the rumour does not fit one of these codes it is added to a pool of unmatched data points to be clustered into different groups. Figure 1 summarises the major steps of the prototype.

Reviewer: I think you have to write this imagining that someone knows nothing about the project. In that case they would ask: What are the existing codes? Where did they come from? Are these all the codes or is this a demo?

![Figure 1](outputs/figures/readme/overall_system.png)

Figure 2: System Components

> The analysis provided in this repository generates two outputs:

Reviewer: analysis or pipelines?

1. A classification model that classfies rumours into existing categories
2. A clustering model that finds new groups of rumours from a pool of rumours that cannot be classified

> Find out more about the project in our report 'title of the report' [insert link].

Reviewer: Do we have the title and link now? Otherwise put TBD and create an issue to add later

## Contents

`Published on July xx, 2022`

> - [**Model workflow**](https://github.com/nestauk/cci_cameroon/tree/10_model_pipeline/cci_cameroon/pipeline/model_workflow): Python code for train the models and then running on the test set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Model workflow**](https://github.com/nestauk/cci_cameroon/tree/10_model_pipeline/cci_cameroon/pipeline/model_workflow): Python code for training the models and applying to the test data.
```

- [**Classification model development**](https://github.com/nestauk/cci_cameroon/tree/10_model_pipeline/cci_cameroon/analysis/classification_model_dev): Classification models tuning on the training set to find optimum models and parameters.
- [**Clustering model development**](https://github.com/nestauk/cci_cameroon/tree/10_model_pipeline/cci_cameroon/analysis/clustering_model_dev): Testing of different clustering methods and parameters to develop an optimum model.

## Data

> To build the models we used community feedback data related to COVID-19 collected by the Cameroon Red Cross (CRC) with help from the International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC). This dataset forms part of an ongoing collection of COVID-19 community data by the IFRC and regional RC societies. Each Red Cross society collects questions, feedback suggestions, rumours, beliefs and observations from community members across the country through different channels such as social media, focus groups and radio. This data is then sent to the IFRC to be processed which includes assigning observations to a code to represent its topic. More information on this data collection process can be found on the IFRC.Go platform. This dataset contains 6,702 observations which contain the rumour text as well as information about how the rumour was collected and its assigned code.

Reviewer: It already says "Cameroon Red Cross (CRC)" above so can probably just refer to it as CRC from here.

Reviewer: Same with IFRC I thnk

Reviewer: Link to IFRC.Go?

#### Selecting data for modelling

As a first step we manually inspected some of the comments assigned to each of the codes. We noticed a lot of variation in the quality of the codes and the number of comments assigned. Some of the codes were very broad such as ‘other beliefs about the disease’ and many only had a few comments assigned.

> For this reason we decided to only select a small subset of the codes to use as output variables for our classification model. To select the codes we designed and ran an activity with CRC staff to prioritise the codes to be used in modelling. The chosen codes are listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason we decided to only select a small subset of the codes to use as target variables for our classification model. To select the codes we designed and ran an activity with CRC staff to prioritise the codes to be used in modelling. The chosen codes are listed below.
```

## Installation

### Clone and set up the repo

1. To run the models you will first need to setup the project. Follow the below two steps to do this:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/nestauk/cci_cameroon
$ cd cci_cameroon
```

2. Run the command `make install` to create the virtual environment and install dependencies

3. Inside the project directory run `make inputs-pull` to access the data from S3 (for those with access to the Nesta S3 account)

To note the project is setup using the Nesta Cookiecutter (guidelines on the Nesta Cookiecutter can be [found here](https://nestauk.github.io/ds-cookiecutter/structure/)).

### Split the data

For modelling purposes we split the data into training and test sets. As input we used the cleaned files of comments and codes from the partipatory workshops (defined in 'Cleaning the data using participatory methods') and a sample of data from the original IFRC rumours, beliefs and observations dataset. For internal use these are saved in the projects S3 bucket. If you don't have access to these files you can skip this step.

```shell
$ cd cci_cameroon/pipeline

> $ python3 data_splitting.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python cci_cameroon/pipeline/data_splitting.py
```

```

##### Outputs

The following files created from running the `data_splitting.py` file. These are saved in `inputs/data/data_for_modelling` and are listed below. The last two files are used to help the model improve its accuracy predicting 'no response' rather than one of the eight codes.

These form the training and test sets used for modelling.

- `X_train.csv`
- `X_test.csv`
- `y_train.csv`
- `y_test.csv`
- `no_response_train.csv`
- `no_response_test.csv`

### Save and run the models

#### Save the classification model

Run the below python file to train and save the classification model. This requires the above training and test files in the format:

- X_train, X_test, no_response_train, no_response_test: rumour_id (unique integer), rumour text (string)
- y_train, y_test: rumour_id (unique integer), codes assigned (list of codes)

```shell
$ cd cci_cameroon/pipeline

> $ python3 classification_model_save.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python cci_cameroon/pipeline/classification_model_save.py
```

```

##### Outputs

The pre-trained classification model is saved to `outputs/model`. This model is fitted using the same IFRC dataset that the test set came from. The MultiLabelBinarizer model (mlb) is used to access the classes to create the predictions dataset. This model is also created and saved to `outputs/model`.

- `final_classification_model.sav`

> - `mlb.pkl`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pre-trained classification model is saved to `outputs/model/final_classification_model.sav`. This model is fitted using the same IFRC dataset that the test set came from. The MultiLabelBinarizer model (mlb) is used to access the classes to create the predictions dataset. This model is also created and saved to `outputs/model/mlb.pkl`.
```

#### Run the models

Move into the `model_workflow` folder and run the following file to run the models.

Perform the following steps to run the models:

```shell
$ cd into cci_cameroon/pipeline/model_workflow
$ python3 classification_model_run.py
$ python3 clustering_model_run.py*

> ```

Reviewer: Similarly to above, unless there is a reason to, it's clearer and more straightforward to run scripts from the root directory.

> *We have found that running this file on a mac system can sometimes encounter errors. If you experience this you can run a version of this file on google colab. The version that can be run on google colab is saved in the same folder called `clustering_model_run_colab.py`. Use Jupytext to create a notebook version of this file and upload it to google colab (check the markdown in the notebook for instructions on how to run). You may want to convert the .py file to a jupyter notebook before uploading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*We have found that running this file on a Mac can sometimes encounter errors. If you experience this you can run a version of this file on Google Colab. The version that can be run on Google Colab is saved in the same folder and is called `clustering_model_run_colab.py`. Use Jupytext to create a notebook version of this file and upload it to google colab (check the markdown in the notebook for instructions on how to run).
```
